---
uid: Upgrading.1_x-to-2_x
title: Upgrading Wolfringo v1.x to v2.x
---

# Wolfringo v2.0
Wolfringo 2.0 brought some significant changes - most notably introduction of WolfClient and CommandsService builders, separation of cache and client logic, help commands support. Command requirements also got a little overhaul. And of course, it also includes numerous smaller changes.

## WolfClient and CommandsService builders
In previous versions of Wolfringo, creating @TehGM.Wolfringo.WolfClient and @TehGM.Wolfringo.Commands.CommandsService could get a bit confusing due to the requirement of manual service collection populating. To address this, Wolfringo 2.0 introduces @TehGM.Wolfringo.WolfClientBuilder and <xref:TehGM.Wolfringo.Commands.CommandsServiceBuilder>.

> Note: the most commonly used constructors for @TehGM.Wolfringo.WolfClient and @TehGM.Wolfringo.Commands.CommandsService are now marked as obsolete, and will be removed in future versions.
> More complex constructors were removed completely, and need to be replaces with builders.

### WolfClientBuilder
Creating WolfClient with logging enabled looked like this:
```csharp
ILoggerFactory logFactory = CreateLoggerFactory();
IServiceCollection services = new ServiceCollection()
    .AddSingleton<ILoggerFactory>(logFactory);

_client = new WolfClient(logFactory.CreateLogger<WolfClient>()); 
_client.AddMessageListener<WelcomeEvent>(OnWelcome);
```

Now to do the same, create your WolfClient as follows:
```csharp
_client = new WolfClientBuilder()
    .WithLogging(CreateLoggerFactory())
    .Build();
_client.AddMessageListener<WelcomeEvent>(OnWelcome);
```

### CommandsServiceBuilder
Creating Commands Service now works similar:
```csharp
CommandsService commands = new CommandsServiceBuilder()
    .WithLogging(CreateLoggerFactory())
    .WithWolfClient(_client)
    .WithPrefix("!")
    .Build();
await commands.StartAsync();
```

Now you can also add commands directly to WolfClientBuilder - this way, client and its logging will be automatically added, and StartAsync() called for you!
```csharp
_client = new WolfClientBuilder()
    .WithLogging(CreateLoggerFactory())
    .WithCommands(commands =>
    {
        commands.WithPrefix("!");
    })
    .Build();
```

#### Additional services
There are 2 ways of adding additional services for Dependency Injection purposes.

- The most common one is using `WithSingletonService` (on <xref:TehGM.Wolfringo.Commands.CommandsServiceBuilder>) or `WithService` (on <xref:TehGM.Wolfringo.WolfClientBuilder>) methods that will register the service with the collection.
- Alternatively, both @TehGM.Wolfringo.Commands.CommandsServiceBuilder and @TehGM.Wolfringo.WolfClientBuilder can optionally take `IServiceCollection` through their constructor.

## Commands Changes
### Building Help Command
Help commands are a common need in bots, and Wolfringo now has features that make creating them much easier. See [Help Command Guide](xref:Guides.Commands.HelpCommand) to learn more.

If you already have a custom help command, you can upgrade it easily, but don't worry - it's not required! Help Command feature is opt-in, and your existing help command will work just fine!

### Getting Raw Arguments Text
Previously, to get raw text of command arguments, you could use 2 approaches, both of which had issues:
- Get Message Text - required you to manually remove prefix and command name.
- Use `string[]` as argument - included all parsed arguments, but they were missing grouping characters, such as parentheses.

Now there's a better way. You can simply mark a string argument with [\[ArgumentsText\]](xref:TehGM.Wolfringo.Commands.ArgumentsTextAttribute) attribute. See [Arguments in Wolfringo Commands](xref:Guides.Commands.Handlers#arguments-text) for an example and more info.

### Recipient info in Error Messages
[\[MissingError\]](xref:TehGM.Wolfringo.Commands.MissingErrorAttribute) attribute and [\[ConvertingError\]](xref:TehGM.Wolfringo.Commands.ConvertingErrorAttribute) attribute now support `{{RecipientID}}` and `{{RecipientName}}` placeholders - they'll be replaced with bot's ID/nickname for private messages and group's ID/name for group messages.

### Getting Command Options
Previously getting command options for given command would require manually checking attributes and global options instance.

Since Wolfringo 2.0, you can inject a new @TehGM.Woflrigo.Commands.ICommandOptions interface to your command method. This options instance will contain the actual prefix etc values for given command.

### Skipping Commands
Wolfringo Commands System no longer has a strict rule that one message received = only one command handler attempted. Command execution now can be skipped, making CommandsService attempt to try another command. This is opt-in, so unless you start using this feature, your commands will function just like they did before.

To do so, either return `Task<ICommandResult>` or `ICommandResult` with status of @TehGM.Wolfringo.Commands.Results.CommandResultStatus.Skip in your command, or tell the requirement attribute to skip on failure. See [Skipping using Requirements](xref:Guides.Commands.Requirements#skipping) and [Skipping using return value](xref:Guides.Commands.Handlers#returning-icommandresult) for more information.

### Command Timeouts
Commands execution now times out after 1 day by default. This is a huge timeout, and isn't infinite only to help prevent any memory leaks. You can however specify timeout for both Standard and Regex commands by using `Timeout` property. 

In order to use the timeout, inject @System.Threading.CancellationToken into your command method, and use it in async calls. Alternatively you can also call `ThrowIfCancellationRequested` method.
```csharp
[Command("timeout", Timeout = 1000)]
public async Task CmdTimeoutAsync(CancellationToken cancellationToken)
{
    // simulate long running task
    await Task.Delay(1500, cancellationToken);

    // check timeout
    cancellationToken.ThrowIfCancellationRequested();

    // oops! This will time out!
    Console.WriteLine("This will never be written to console, because long-running task takes longer than Timeout!");
}
```

Regex commands also support a separate timeout value which is then provided to Regex Engine. This exists to prevent user attacks exploiting complex regexes in your commands. Default value is 1000ms which should be generous enough for most regexes, but if you wish to change it, you can use `RegexTimeout` property.

> [!NOTE]
> Note that values of both `Timeout` and `RegexTimeout` properties are specified in milliseconds. So for 1 second timeout, set the value to `1000`.

### Command Requirement changes
If you created [custom command requirements](xref:Guides.Commands.Requirements#custom-requirements), you'll need to change the return type of [CheckAsync](xref:TehGM.Wolfringo.Commands.ICommandRequirement.CheckAsync(TehGM.Wolfringo.Commands.ICommandContext,System.IServiceProvider,System.Threading.CancellationToken)) method from `Task<bool>` to `Task<ICommandResult>`.

### ICommandResult changes
If you used @TehGM.Wolfringo.Commands.Results.ICommandResult for any purpose in your bot, there are a few changes that you should be aware of:
- `IsSuccess` is now obsolete and will be removed in later Wolfringo version.
- `Status` property has been added instead.
- `Exception` property has been removed. Wolfringo Commands System will simply throw exceptions now.
- To support above changes, previous constructors of built-in result implementations have been replaced with new ones.
- Built-in result implementations have been changed from `struct` to `class`.

## Caching Configuration
Caching and WolfClient have been separated in Wolfringo 2.0. This means that you can implement your own cache and add it using Dependency Injection.

If you didn't disable caching, you'll notice no change at all.  
However, if you were disabling cache or its parts, you'll need to make a few adjustments.

### [Without Wolfringo.Hosting (Normal Bot)](#tab/upgrading-normal-bot)
Properties for enabling and disabling caching have been removed from [WolfClient](xref:TehGM.Wolfringo.WolfClient). Instead, you can configure caching using [WolfClientBuilder](xref:TehGM.Wolfringo.WolfClientBuilder):
```csharp
_client = new WolfClientBuilder()
    .WithDefaultCaching(new WolfCacheOptions()
    {
        // set to false to disable
        options.UsersCachingEnabled = true;
        options.GroupsCachingEnabled = true;
        options.CharmsCachingEnabled = true;
        options.AchievementsCachingEnabled = true;
    })
    .Build();
```

@TehGM.Wolfringo.Utilities.WolfCacheOptions is present in `TehGM.Wolfringo.Utilities` namespace.

### [With Wolfringo.Hosting (.NET Generic Host/ASP.NET Core)](#tab/upgrading-hosted-bot)
Properties for enabling and disabling caching have been removed from [HostedWolfClientOptions](xref:TehGM.Wolfringo.Hosting.HostedWolfClientOptions) and moved to a new @TehGM.Wolfringo.Utilities.WolfCacheOptions class.

If you used providers configuration (like from appsettings.json file), you need to configure the new options type.
```csharp
services.Configure<HostedWolfClientOptions>(context.Configuration.GetSection("WolfClient"));
services.Configure<WolfCacheOptions>(context.Configuration.GetSection("WolfClient"));
```

Alternatively, you can use a new hosted client builder method `ConfigureCaching`:
```csharp
services.AddWolfClient()
    // ... other configuration ...
    .ConfigureCaching(options =>
    {
        // set to false to disable
        options.UsersCachingEnabled = true;
        options.GroupsCachingEnabled = true;
        options.CharmsCachingEnabled = true;
        options.AchievementsCachingEnabled = true;
    });
```
***

## WolfClient defaults
`DefaultServerURL`, `BetaServerURL` and `DefaultDevice` constants have been moved from @TehGM.Wolfringo.WolfClient to [WolfClientOptions](xref:TehGM.Wolfringo.WolfClientOptions).

## Requesting user's achievements
If you used `UserAchievementListResponse` class anywhere, it has been renamed to @TehGM.Wolfringo.Messages.Responses.EntityAchievementListResponse and its `UserAchievements` property has been renamed to @TehGM.Wolfringo.Messages.Responses.EntityAchievementListResponse.Achievements. This change is due to Group Achievements not being supported as well.

> [!TIP]
> If you didn't use the response class directly and simply used [Sender Utility](xref:Guides.Features.Sender), you're fine - Sender methods have been upgraded under the hood, with no change needed in your bot.

## Ignoring Own Messages
WolfClient will still ignore its own messages by default, but if you used to disable this feature, you'll find that `IgnoreOwnChatMessages` property is now read-only. To change it, you need to use [WolfClientOptions](xref:TehGM.Wolfringo.WolfClientOptions) class.

```csharp
_client = new WolfClientBuilder()
    .ConfigureOptions(options =>
    {
        // set to false to disable
        options.IgnoreOwnChatMessages = true;
    })
    .Build();
```

## Removed ServiceProvider classes
`SimpleServiceProvider` and `CombinedServiceProvider` classes were used internally to help with fallback when library user didn't provide some required services. This is now handled by builders which use framework-provided @Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.IServiceCollection and @System.IServiceProvider, so both `SimpleServiceProvider` and `CombinedServiceProvider` were removed.

If you used these classes, you'll need to remove references to them, and replace either with framework-provided solutions, or create your own implementations.